We're now ready to begin the
transition to parallelism.
In this part of the
lesson, I'll explain
how aggregate operations
from Java's sequential
streams that we've covered
in previous weeks are applied
in the context of the Java
parallel streams framework.
Just a quick recap from earlier.
Recall that a Java
stream is a pipeline
of aggregate operations that
process a sequence of elements,
also known as values or data.
These aggregate operations
use internal iteration
and behaviors to
process elements
that flow through a stream.
By default, a stream
execute sequentially.
So all of its
aggregate operations
run their behaviors in
one thread of control.
In contrast, when a stream
executes in parallel,
it is partitioned into multiple
substream chunks that run
in the common fork-join pool.
The threads in this fork-join
pool non-deterministically
process these different
chunks in parallel.
The intermediate
operations iterate over
and process the behaviors
on these chunks in parallel
as well.
And finally, the streams
terminal operation
is used to combine the chunks
into a single reduced result.
The stateless Java 8 lambda
expressions and method
references are used
to pass behaviors
into the aggregate operations.
Ideally, only minuscule changes
are needed to transition
from a sequential to
a parallel stream.
Although we'll
see later that you
can do more advanced
techniques in order
to ring even further
parallelism out
of your solutions,
which will ideally help
improve performance
even further.
The same aggregate operations
that we've talked about earlier
can be used for both sequential
and parallel streams.
And that's reassuring
because it means
all the things we've covered
in the previous weeks
don't have to be
relearned from scratch.
In particular, the
SearchStreamGang example case
study.
We've been focusing on uses
the same aggregate operations
for both the
SearchWithSequentialStreams
class and the
SearchWithParallelStreams class
that we'll be
looking at shortly.
Therefore, you can
treat parallelism
as an optimization
in Java streams
and use it to leverage
all of the available cores
at your disposal.
We'll also talk
later about how you
can limit the number of
cores that are used as well.
Although typically
you try to use as many
cause as possible
if your goal is
to get maximum throughput,
scalability, and latency out
of your solutions.
Naturally, the
behaviors that you
pass to the aggregate
operations have
to be very carefully
designed to avoid
accessing any unsynchronized
shared mutable state--
which, of course, is
the root of all evil
in parallel and
concurrent programs,
as we've talked
about many times.
In fact, we'll
also see, as we go
through these slides in this
lesson and other lessons,
that it's very
important to understand
how to avoid various parallelism
hazards by programming
properly to make sure you share
as little mutable state as
possible.
Ideally, none.